# Powerformer-
Powerformer intro 
Conventional high-voltage generators are constructed in a way that limits their output voltage to a maximum of 30 kV. The power grids with voltages up to 1,100 kV cannot be directly supplied by these generators, which is a reason large power plants use power step-up transformers in order to transform their generated voltage to a higher voltage level suitable for the interface with the transmission grid. Step-up transformers impose significant drawbacks on the power plant as a whole, starting from reduction in efficiency, high maintenance costs, more space, less availability, and an increased environmental impact. During the last century, a number of attempts were made at developing a high-voltage generator Powerformer that could be connected directly to the power grid, without going via the step-up transformer.
Recently, Powerformer was developed with innovative features that enable it to connect directly to the transmission grid. The Powerformer, although a new machine, is a three-phase synchronous generator with a rotor of conventional design. The basic difference, compared to the conventional generator, lies in the stator windings. With Powerformer the stator winding consists of high-voltage cables instead of the conventional rectangular cross-section windings. its benefits such as higher efficiency, better availability, lower maintenance costs and reduced environmental impact are straightforward consequences of transformer-less power plants.
